# Ski Bus Synchronization Project

## Overview

This project implements a synchronization problem inspired by the "Senate Bus Problem" described in Allen B. Downey's "The Little Book of Semaphores". The system simulates the coordination between skiers and a ski bus using processes and semaphores to manage synchronization.

## Project Description

The program simulates a scenario with three types of processes: the main process, the ski bus, and skiers. Each skier, after finishing breakfast, goes to a bus stop to wait for the ski bus. The bus picks up skiers up to its capacity and transports them to a final stop at a ski lift. If there are more skiers than the bus can handle in one trip, it makes multiple trips until all skiers are transported.

## Process Details

### Main Process

- Creates the ski bus process.
- Creates `L` skier processes.
- Assigns each skier a random bus stop.
- Waits for all processes to complete before terminating.

### Ski Bus Process

- Announces its start.
- Travels to each bus stop, waits for a random time (`TB`), and announces its arrival.
- Allows skiers to board up to the bus's capacity and then announces its departure.
- Repeats for all bus stops, then travels to the final stop and allows all skiers to disembark.
- Continues making trips until all skiers have been transported.
- Announces its finish and terminates.

### Skier Process

- Announces its start.
- Waits for a random time (`TL`) after breakfast.
- Travels to the assigned bus stop and announces its arrival.
- Waits for the bus, boards if there's space, and announces boarding.
- Waits until the bus reaches the ski lift and announces going to ski.
- Terminates.

## Execution

To run the program, use the following command:

```sh
./ski-bus L Z K TL TB

L: Number of skiers (must be less than 20000)
Z: Number of bus stops (between 1 and 10)
K: Capacity of the ski bus (between 10 and 100)
TL: Maximum time in microseconds a skier waits before going to a bus stop (0 to 10000)
TB: Maximum bus travel time between stops in microseconds (0 to 1000)
```

## Example

./ski-bus 8 4 10 4 5

## Compilation

Use the make tool for compilation. A Makefile is provided for building the project:

```sh
make
```

## Example Output

An example of the proj2.out file generated by the program:


1: L 1: started
2: L 3: started
...
15: BUS: started
...
43: BUS: leaving final
44: BUS: finish


